---
layout: post
title:  "flake8"
date:   2018-07-08 00:00:00 +1200
categories: posts
---

## Why flake8

Options:

- pychecker: will run code, which is not good
- pylint: too strict, very talkative
- pyflakes: very lite, not strict enough
- pycodestyle(pep8): good enough
- flake8: pyflakes + pycodestyle

## Use with command line options

    flake8  # run with default rules in current dir
    flake8 path/to/code
    python -m flake8 <OPTIONS>  # run the version for current python version

A real example:

    python -m flake8 \
        --exclude migrations,docs \
        --ignore E501 \
        --show-source \
        --statistics

see more: `flake8 --help`.

You can create a shell script with options in your project to run flake8.
However, in this way, if you use flake8 git hook extension, it will not respect
your options. So a better way is to use config file.

## Use with config file

locations:

- `~\.flake8` for Windows
- `~/.config/flake8` for Unix/Linux/macOS
- `.flake8`, `setup.cfg`, `tox.ini` in project

Available options are the same as command line, without leading hyphens.
Or you can change `-` to `_`.

example `.config/flake8`:

    [flake8]
    exclude = migrations,docs
    ingore = E501
    show-source = true
    statistis = true


## Ignore

line:

    result = this_is_a_very_long_line(foo, bar)  # noqa

specific error in line:

    result = this_is_a_very_long_line(foo, bar)  # noqa: E501

file:

    # flake8: noqa

specific errors in file:

    # flake8: noqa: E501,E126

## git hook

In your git repo, run:

    flake8 --install-hook git

This will create file `.git/hook/pre-commit` with content like this:

    #!/Users/guoqiao/.pyenv/versions/3.6.5/envs/VENVNAME/bin/python
    import sys

    from flake8.main import git

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        sys.exit(
            git.hook(
                strict=git.config_for('strict'),
                lazy=git.config_for('lazy'),
            )
        )

It will also repect your flake8 config file.

## Full help message

    $ flake8 --help
    Usage: flake8 [options] file file ...

    Options:
      --version             show program's version number and exit
      -h, --help            show this help message and exit
      -v, --verbose         Print more information about what is happening in
                            flake8. This option is repeatable and will increase
                            verbosity each time it is repeated.
      -q, --quiet           Report only file names, or nothing. This option is
                            repeatable.
      --count               Print total number of errors and warnings to standard
                            error and set the exit code to 1 if total is not
                            empty.
      --diff                Report changes only within line number ranges in the
                            unified diff provided on standard in by the user.
      --exclude=patterns    Comma-separated list of files or directories to
                            exclude. (Default:
                            .svn,CVS,.bzr,.hg,.git,__pycache__,.tox,.eggs,*.egg)
      --filename=patterns   Only check for filenames matching the patterns in this
                            comma-separated list. (Default: *.py)
      --stdin-display-name=STDIN_DISPLAY_NAME
                            The name used when reporting errors from code passed
                            via stdin. This is useful for editors piping the file
                            contents to flake8. (Default: stdin)
      --format=format       Format errors according to the chosen formatter.
      --hang-closing        Hang closing bracket instead of matching indentation
                            of opening bracket's line.
      --ignore=errors       Comma-separated list of errors and warnings to ignore
                            (or skip). For example, ``--ignore=E4,E51,W234``.
                            (Default: E121,E123,E126,E226,E24,E704,W503,W504)
      --max-line-length=n   Maximum allowed line length for the entirety of this
                            run. (Default: 79)
      --select=errors       Comma-separated list of errors and warnings to enable.
                            For example, ``--select=E4,E51,W234``. (Default:
                            E,F,W,C90)
      --disable-noqa        Disable the effect of "# noqa". This will report
                            errors on lines with "# noqa" at the end.
      --show-source         Show the source generate each error or warning.
      --statistics          Count errors and warnings.
      --enable-extensions=ENABLE_EXTENSIONS
                            Enable plugins and extensions that are otherwise
                            disabled by default
      --exit-zero           Exit with status code "0" even if there are errors.
      --install-hook=INSTALL_HOOK
                            Install a hook that is run prior to a commit for the
                            supported version control system.
      -j JOBS, --jobs=JOBS  Number of subprocesses to use to run checks in
                            parallel. This is ignored on Windows. The default,
                            "auto", will auto-detect the number of processors
                            available to use. (Default: auto)
      --output-file=OUTPUT_FILE
                            Redirect report to a file.
      --tee                 Write to stdout and output-file.
      --append-config=APPEND_CONFIG
                            Provide extra config files to parse in addition to the
                            files found by Flake8 by default. These files are the
                            last ones read and so they take the highest precedence
                            when multiple files provide the same option.
      --config=CONFIG       Path to the config file that will be the authoritative
                            config source. This will cause Flake8 to ignore all
                            other configuration files.
      --isolated            Ignore all found configuration files.
      --benchmark           Print benchmark information about this run of Flake8
      --bug-report          Print information necessary when preparing a bug
                            report
      --max-complexity=MAX_COMPLEXITY
                            McCabe complexity threshold
      --builtins=BUILTINS   define more built-ins, comma separated
      --doctests            check syntax of the doctests
      --include-in-doctest=INCLUDE_IN_DOCTEST
                            Run doctests only on these files
      --exclude-from-doctest=EXCLUDE_FROM_DOCTEST
                            Skip these files when running doctests

    Installed plugins: mccabe: 0.6.1, pycodestyle: 2.3.1, pyflakes: 1.6.0

