---
layout: post
title:  "mongodb"
date:   2018-06-30 20:00:00 +1200
categories: posts
---

This post try mongodb in docker.

When you are in terminal:

    docker run mongo
    docker ps  # copy mongo CONTAINER_ID
    docker exec -it CONTAINER_ID bash

When you are in docker:

    mongo

Some useful infomation from the login shell:

    connecting to: mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017
    ...
    WARNING: Using the XFS filesystem is strongly recommended with the
    WiredTiger storage engine
    ...
    WARNING: Access control is not enabled for the database. Read and write
    access to data and configuration is unrestricted.
    ...
    Enable MongoDB's free cloud-based monitoring service to collect and display
    metrics about your deployment (disk utilization, CPU, operation statistics,
    etc).

    The monitoring data will be available on a MongoDB website with a unique
    URL created for you. Anyone you share the URL with will also be able to
    view this page. MongoDB may use this information to make product
    improvements and to suggest MongoDB products and deployment options to you.

    To enable free monitoring, run the following command:
    db.enableFreeMonitoring()
    ...

data path is `/data/db`, config path is `/data/configdb`.
Refer to Dockerfile for more details:

    https://github.com/docker-library/mongo/blob/master/4.0/Dockerfile

When you are in mongo shell, to enable free monitoring:

    > db.enableFreeMonitoring()
    {
        "state" : "enabled",
        "message" : "To see your monitoring data, navigate to the unique URL below. Anyone you share the URL with will also be able to view this page. You can disable monitoring at any time by running db.disableFreeMonitoring().",
        "url" : "https://cloud.mongodb.com/freemonitoring/cluster/XXXXJBOKEXG3OKZUXDI3SJKFCQFGF2",
        "userReminder" : "",
        "ok" : 1
    }

it tells us the command to disable:

    > db.disableFreeMonitoring()

get help:

    > help

    show dbs                     show database names
    show collections             show collections in current database
    show users                   show users in current database
    show profile                 show most recent system.profile entries with time >= 1ms
    show logs                    show the accessible logger names
    show log [name]              prints out the last segment of log in memory, 'global' is default
    use <db_name>                set current database
    db.foo.find()                list objects in collection foo
    db.foo.find( { a : 1 } )     list objects in foo where a == 1
    it                           result of the last line evaluated; use to further iterate

To list all dbs():

    > show dbs;
    admin   0.000GB
    config  0.000GB
    local   0.000GB

in mongo, db means collection, and record means document.
switch to a db/collection:

    use mycoll

`mycoll` doesn't need to exist first, it will be created when you insert data:

    db.mycoll.insertOne( { x: 1 } )

query:

    db.users.find({"age": 27})

query and only return required keys:

    db.users.find({}, {"username": 1, "email": 1})

key "_id" will always be returned.

query and exclude keys from result:

    db.users.find({}, {"password": 0})

You can even do that with `_id`:

    db.users.find({}, {"username": 1, "_id": 0})

query with condtions:

    db.users.find({"age": {"$gte": 18, "$lte": 30}})

query before date:

    start = new Date("01/01/2017")
    db.users.find({"registered": {"$lt": start}})

query not equal:

    db.users.find({"username": {"$ne": "joe"}})

query with `$in`:

    db.raffle.find("ticket_no": {"$in": [725, 542, 390]})

you can use differnt types:

    db.users.find({"user_id": {"$in": [12345, "joe"]}})

query Not In: `$nin`

    db.raffle.find("ticket_no": {"$nin": [725, 542, 390]})

query with `$or`:

    db.raffle.find({"$or": [{"ticket_no": 725}, {"winner": true}]})

query with `$mod`:

    db.suers.find({"id_num": {"$mod": [5, 1]}})

will return if id_num mod 5 equals 1.

    db.suers.find({"id_num": {"$not": {"$mod": [5, 1]}}})
